That's right. How many years, how far back did that
go? Did he have that place for years? For years. I
mean, yeah. And there were some more of them. They
were kin somehow to the ones that owned the
property for South Oakwood. Describe Mr.
Herdlicka. Herdlicka? Yes, sir. Uh... I know I
couldn't do that. I know I wouldn't know a man if I
saw him again. Only time I had any real,
we always had two cows. Either when we were on the
campus or when we were in College Park, we had two
cows. And so it was my job to, to take them and get
them bred. And the hard licker had a small Jersey
bull. So I'd have to go over there to him. And that
was quite a circus. Did you, were the cattle, did
you have those heifers here on the campus? Those
milk cows? Yeah, we used them. We sold the
offsprings that we got, but we kept one.
Originally, when we were up on the campus, the
college decided that they were going to upgrade
their dairy herd. And they had one of these big old
jerseys that was He's supposedly a 15th, 16th
Jersey. They couldn't get the papers on her, so
they sold her. Dad bought her. He took her down
there to the end of Quality Road, and we had a place
for her. Because the etymology
had a whole bunch of farms in there. a number of
places we could keep cattle. And so we kept that one
and then we got an offspring off of it and that's why
we got two of them. When we came down to, when we
moved down from 1924
we moved from the college to
College Park. Now, you said 24. You didn't mean...
Yeah. I thought you moved to College Station in 24.
No, 19. 19. Oh, okay. I lived there five years. When
you all lived on the campus, did your mother have a
maid? No. Did anybody help her with house
cleaning?
We had...
I don't remember we, oh yeah, yeah.
You had, you could get students to come help when
you were running the laundry.
You had to go outside and you had a cast iron pot with
Full of water and soap and all that stuff. And one
man that I remember was named Scott. He later
became engineers around here for a lot of things. I
think he one time or another was chief engineer for
the city of Brown. But he came down there for 25
cents an hour at 6 o'clock in the morning or For a
long time. To help with the washing? Yeah, they
took it outside and washed the clothes. And yeah,
there were some Negroes in that particular
operation. And there were clotheslines all
across the neighborhood. They had clotheslines,
yeah. But you had to heat everything with wood.
Mm-hmm. You had no gas. And where did you all get the
wood? Did you buy it from? You bought people to
come. Our contingency of wood was 15 cords of wood.
Now, a cord of wood is 10 feet long, 4 feet wide, and 4
feet high. And you had to bring it. They had to bring
them in there. They were cut with an axe. And it was
most all oak? Old oak. That's the reason we could
never have a bonfire. Sure. The bonfire we made, we
kept the crating. Sure. Everything in the
business was shipped with crating on it. We didn't
have pasteboards like we have today. Sure. I'm
trying to think about campus personalities. Do
you remember Coach D.X. Bible? Oh, yeah. Describe
him. He was a pretty good-sized man. Did he live on
campus? Oh, yeah. He had a house on campus. And his
teams were good. Was he well-liked? He had the best
there was. And he went to the university, but
that's what kind of tore it with us. Now... He
left... But I remember those games when they had
Joel Hunt. Yep.
He'd take that line and he'd take that line and he'd
open a hole you could drive a damn car
through. Sitting up on the end where we always did
it on the end of the stadiums or something, you
know. and you could see right where he was going to
run. It was pitiful. Now, he brought young Andy
Anderson with him, didn't he, as an assistant
coach? I don't know anything about that. You
remember Colonel Andy. I know, I know, I know. But
the only occasion that I ever had with Colonel Andy
was at...
When I had to take P.E. and I couldn't run, and so he
got me to take the trotter. I trotted on the, around
their track. And I just trotted along the best I
could. When, there's Colonel Andy's son, Rusty,
the doctor here. He told me what his father had told
him about the 12th man game in Dallas. Do you
remember hearing anything about it then? Did
people talk about the 12th man immediately after
it happened? No, it's something they have brought
up.
They never did
say too much about it. Did you by chance know Heine
Weir, the football player? He later was dean out at
Schreiner Institute in Kerrville. He's the one
whose hurt knee might have kept him from playing
and why they got King Gill to come down and put his
uniform on. Oh. Well, I don't know. When you were a
little boy, did you all go to the football games?
Yeah, we did the football games. Matter of fact, I
have some movies of a rice game in which
Jaron Johnson, I got a lot of pictures of him in
movies. He'd get up on a, see, they did a Jar and
John, they'd pull him right up behind the tackle,
right there. And so when they snapped the ball,
they just gave it to him. And he would get out there
and he'd say to some of the guys in front of
him, I'm... I'm coming through here. He would tell
them that, oh, some of the other guys would say, oh,
John's going through here.
So that, it was just hype, you know. But he did, it
was a short change. That's what that coach
brought. When you were a little kid, did you and
your buddies go hunting or fishing? We did
fishing. Where did you fish? In that lake there in
front of my house.
Yeah. What we called nigger fishing. Now, you're
talking about on campus or? No, around College
Park. College Park, uh-huh. There was a big lake in
there. Oh, okay. Gilchrist made us cut it open.
Because we didn't have a herd...
A permit? A health permit. Oh, okay. Well, when he
was built, there wasn't any health permits. Sure.
Sure. He was just bound to determine they were
going to... Dad kept that thing full of what he
called
minerals.
We had a whole sewer system in there, and I had to
take part in that. I had to... get help to do that.
Had a little bigger sand work with them. I took care
of that. They had some down on the south end of
Dexter there across the creek there. They had that
thing there and I helped lay that along the line
from our house down there. Allison was the, dad had
a A man named Allison. He was a World War I man. He'd
been shot at. Shot up, too. He parachuted out and
they shot him. And he survived. And he was around
there and taught classes. See, Dad had to
reconstitute that organization there. He had
three men. The whole department, three? Josh
Carney and one of the Whitleys. He sold cars later.
He was there. And another man, I don't know his
name. Who do you think would have been your dad's
favorite dean of agriculture of all the people he
worked with? Dean Kyle. Dean Kyle? Now he served
till about when? 39 he died. So he was dean a long
time. Well, my father died in 39. Oh, oh. And Dean
Pratt was still head of the... Dad was assistant
dean. Okay. What were his duties as assistant
dean? Oh, he had to counsel students and and all the
time, and then you had to work on your curriculum,
the ag engineering. Where was his office as
assistant dean?
I don't know. I can't tell you that, but I do know if
you go out there in the front of that white
building, the administrative building, on the
base of that flagpole, you'll find his name.
Do you remember when that building was
constructed? Yes. Describe that as much as you
can. It cost $400,000. And that's the early 30s?
Well, you see, what happened was this. They
came along First, let's go back a little further.
The legislature set up a building fund for these
advanced colleges in there. And originally, and
they took and gave all of the,
well, in case, oh, that would be your- The
permanent fund? Yeah, permanent fund. They made a
permanent fund. But they gave them, in the case of
over in East Texas, they gave them all the lumber.
And then the legislature, in all of its wisdom,
decided that they wanted to change it. So what did
they do? They took it out of East Texas, and they
went out here to where this county that over here in
Texas, where it comes down to that square point,
comes down here and goes to El Paso, that little
county right there. And they gave them the rights
to a whole bunch of this stuff in here. The mineral
rights. And for the lumber of it. Okay, well, they
discovered oil out there. In its heyday, That oil
produced 37% of all the oil produced in the North
American continent.
That one county.
So that's where we got the money. We can't spend it
for the permanent
bond
the interest well they did that and they gave the
university six million dollars well so A&M
decided we ought to have part of that too so we sued
them we sued them and they divided it up two-thirds
for us and one-third for us. That's where we got the
money to build all these buildings that we had over
here. And then another thing happened, I don't
know how they handled that, but later on when I was
teaching in 35, the
state was broke. Paid with warrants.
Because your check, if you cashed it immediately,
it was discounted, wasn't it? One and a half
percent.
I got $150 a month for teaching
at Tarleton. Now, let's go back to the big
administration building. Whose idea was it to
turn the campus around and extend it to the east?
Well, you
built that concrete
two-lane highway from the bridge all the way to
Texas Avenue.
What is now Texas Avenue. And so it was part of that?
Yes, part of that. It came through here and this
thing was all, they built that in 33 or 34. What did,
those of you living here, what did you all think
about the change to the campus? Did you all like it
or not? Oh yeah, I enjoyed it. I enjoyed it, but it
just,
The only thing I don't like about the campus is
these architects and landscape people want to put
humps in it. Yeah. They don't want you to look at
anything. When it was here, it was a flat piece of
ground, and you could just travel all over the way
you wanted to. That's
the only thing I would object to. As they were
building those new buildings in the early 30s, did
most of those materials come on the train? No.
No. They came by truck. Yeah. You had a
funny thing happen there on trucking. The
railroads got a thing through the legislature
that you couldn't haul more than a ton and a half
past a depot.
If you hauled more than a ton and a half past a depot,
you had to put it on the railroad right there. and so
but uh we had enough good at 30 and 34 we had enough
good trucks and there were some pretty good sized
ones on the market so we we could haul stuff but uh
most of the gravel and the sand that came from here
was taken out of out
of some places around here that no longer exist.
The one that built that highway is, you go down
there beyond where the speedway is, and there's a
road down in that flat there. Well, it all came out
of that right there, but it went clean to the river,
I think. There was some place back in there. And
they were trying to use, they had a bunch of
Chevrolet trucks and the Ford V8 trucks. And the
Ford V8 trucks were just one out. because you could
throw that old Ford V8 in the grandma and come out of
that quarter with it just loping along all the way
in. And those engines lasted. Where the Chevrolet
truck was, you had to grind it out. And it just, you
know, wide open. And they wouldn't last. So the
Ford was the better? The better truck that won out
in that battle. All the way from Navasota to up
here. And I remember driving a,
I don't know, that was a 34 or 36 probably. My mother
said she had to go to town real quick. She was
supposed to be there a certain time. I turned down
on that thing, and we were turning 85. And as a kid,
we used to go north of Bryan, and I'd run up there
many a night with kids. We were running wide open,
about 85 miles an hour, neck and neck, on a brand new
piece of concrete.
With lots of fun. You're mentioning about the sand
and gravel. Many old Aggies have mentioned about
going out to the clay pits. Now the clay pits are a
different situation. Now that was, but south and
west? No, it's off of the old Wellborn Road. Well,
it's all the road that goes into, beyond Wellborn
and goes into the, you can drive it today. goes
right down there, and it turns and goes into
Highway 6. Yeah. Yeah, you know what that is. Yes,
sir. All right, well,
there was some formations in there. They're still
there. And they used to take the railroads and take
carloads of cars, big cars, and stick them down
there. I don't know. I think they were not. open
cars, they were closed. But anyways, that
particular stuff that was in the ground was used as
a filler for some sort of a situation. And it's
known that way. You can put a liquid through it and
fill it out. When you were a youngster, had that
Yeah, they were there. They were already there?
And the nice thing about it was you could go
swimming in it. All right, that's what, did you
ever go down, go swimming there? I never was
swimming in it. But I've been there and looked at
it. I mean, looked at it. And it's a real, real place
to swim in. Only place I ever saw around here was
that the water would be nice and clean and slightly
bluish. stuff like that. When you were in high
school or an undergraduate here, where could and
where could y'all go swimming?
Wasn't a swimming pool. Yeah, it wasn't. You
didn't go swimming in the river, did you? No, we
didn't go swimming in that river. That's what I...
We got sick over there. Yeah. And the other thing,
I'll tell you why I didn't. There was a little bit of
a, before we built the lake in College Park, while I
was still living up on the campus, there was a
smaller lake between that and the college
property. A little small lake in there. And a kid
named Hayes who lived across the street from us, we
went swimming down
there. He was a pretty good-sized kid. And I got to
meet him in my lifetime. We'd be swimming in that
thing anymore. Did you and your buddies have dogs,
cats, other pets when you lived on campus? Oh yeah,
all kinds of stuff like that. I even had a goat.
I don't know where the
what the drill field is now the south drill field
and the core area well there used to be some people
in there and I don't know exactly what they were
doing and they had some goats in there and one of the
men had some goats and he had one of them and he
couldn't feed it So I didn't have the time to feed
it. Somehow or another it was, so he knew me and we
had been talking about that goat and stuff and the
goats in there. So he brought me that thing and told
me, showed me how to feed it. He said, you can, will
you do this? And when I get ready, I'll buy it back
from them. Well, the trouble was they couldn't buy
it back because it had become a pet. It followed
anybody everywhere. Oh, really? On the campus?
Well, all around that property. That's what I
mean. Wherever the men were going, it went. So I had
to take it back. I think they paid me for it. I don't
remember what happened with it. Did you and your
junior high, when you were a kid, did you and your
buddies ever do any pranks, jokes? Well, you see,
one of the things is I went to A&M Consolidated
School until I got through the first...
Eight or nine grades. And those were on campus
here. They were in that old white building, what
they call a music hall, I think now. And my mother,
she decided she wanted to run for the school board.
And so what happened was she ran. And all those men
down through there, all that company down through
there, we don't want no woman on the school board.
We don't want no woman on the school board. So they
got all the men up. And she lost her election. Well,
we found out, and she, I don't know how we found out
all this stuff.
I'm sure dad had a lot to do with it too. And so they
decided that they filed a state law that said if you
did not have a high school in your particular
district, you could transfer anywhere in Texas.
So they transferred me to Bryan. 1929.
No, 31.
And where was Bryan High School located then? It
was just off of 29th Street now. It's from that big
building they tore down. Okay. So I went to see. No,
twenty-nine. I went thirty, thirty-one. And
about how many were in your graduating class?
Pretty good bunch. I would imagine several
hundred. It was quite a big school. Describe being
a student at Bryan High then. Bryan High? What was
it like? They had what I did all the time. They had
what you call a manual training. And they had a
fellow named Smith who ran it. And he got you in
there and he was training you to build furniture. I
built one. I've got a
Bookcase? No.
Cedar line?
Closet? No. It's just a big old cedar line box with
long legs. Oh, I see.